this is my review of the razor core so
when this thing first came in I was
super excited to play with it and so I
did but a couple weeks later I've
decided that I should do the responsible
thing I ran some benchmarks did some
tests finally made a review here it is
so the core itself is extremely well
made I was hoping would have good build
quality for the four or five hundred
dollars that it costs and it really does
full metal construction and very heavy
the build quality is super solid there's
some rubber feet for some grip side top
and bottom ventilation but there's no
airflow through the front it's super
easy to open a handle that flips out to
unlatch the mechanism and the tray
slides out there is a thumb screw for
mounting the card and they've oriented
the PCB so that when the card is
installed the release latches on the
bottom so it's easy to remove again the
power supply is from enhanced it's 500
watts but as you can see from its shape
it's not a regular ATX supply
there's several intake fans on the
bottom one of them feeds the power
supply one bigger one feeds the main
area and then the last one blows into
the PCB area and there's one exhaust fan
underneath the shroud for the power
supply the rest of the airflow has to
come from your video card the software
setup on the stealth is pretty easy you
install some drivers reboot and you're
good to go the blade needs one more step
you need to install some software to
turn off the 970m inside when it's
connected to the core the self doesn't
need its charger the Thunderbolt 3
connection will charge the laptop while
you're connected but the 14 inch blade
will still need the charger they both
connect using the Thunderbolt 3 port and
the cable is very short it's around 20
inches it's an active Thunderbolt 3
cable and they keep it short because
longer lengths can have signal
degradation but I've tried a lot of
third party cables none of them worked
now the stealth has the connection on
the left side of the laptop the 14 inch
blade has it on the right so in terms of
setting it up you're gonna have to
fiddle around with positioning and stuff
but if you plan on having the core on
one side of the monitor and your laptop
on the other side it's not gonna work
the cables too short the core also
lights up with Razer chroma you can
adjust colors and timing with software
again overall I think they nailed the
design and the build quality now both of
these laptops are skinned with dbrand
skins the stealth has the black titanium
the blade has the
carbon-fibre I highly recommend putting
a skin on these devices to protect the
anodized finish there's a link for them
in the description below now in terms of
performance I actually tested out quite
a few video cards but I'm only gonna go
into detail about the 980ti and the 1080
now in general I don't love using
benchmarks for videos but sometimes you
just got to do them so just one other
thing to keep in mind the cards that I
use in this video are reference cards
they weren't overclocked at all there's
gonna be other third-party cards that
you can get better frame rates and stuff
with but these are the reference cards
just for the video so right off the bat
these are the base scores of the razor
blade stealth and the 2016 razor blade
14 we also have a current generation
desktop running 980ti
next up these are the scores when the
980ti is put into the razor core and I'm
only using the external display for
output the laptop display is turned off
and you'll also notice an alienware
score that's the same 980ti
running in the external Alienware a
graphics amp for an alienware 15 with
the same specs as a razor blade 14
so the 980ti gives a nice boost to both
of the razor laptops particularly with
the stealth it's not as fast as a
desktop and it's actually a little bit
slower than the Alienware graphics amp
but it's a very nice boost overall and
then I also ran the same test but this
time I did it with the built-in display
of the laptop so as I mentioned in my
previous Razer core video you're using a
bandwidth to send the rendered data back
to the laptop so the Thunderbolt 3
pipeline gets a little packed and you
get a bit of a performance drop it's not
too much but it is measurable
now the Alienware graphics amp also has
a drop in performance when you're
sending it back to the display now I did
the same test but this time with the new
GT X 1080 and everything runs a little
bit faster but yeah it's the same idea
so here's the deal the video card that
you put into the core will perform at
around 85 or 90 percent of the
efficiency of a desktop setup the exact
card you want to put in obviously
depends on your budget but if you're
looking to buy new the gtx 1070 looks
pretty awesome right now and with a 980
TI or better card in there you'll be
able to run essentially any game you
want at 1080p ultra graphics settings at
60 frames per second
now if there's a specific game you want
to run at a specific resolution or
setting or framerate you'll have to look
up your video card but the bottom line
is that you'll get around 85 to 90% of
the efficiency of a desktop system now
many games are GPU dependent and those
will run nicely on the stealth if you
have a good video card in there but some
games are more CPU dependent for example
which are three and the new doom frame
rates on the quad-core blade are
noticeably better than the dual-core
stealth to determine which games are
more CPU dependent there's really no
sure fast way to tell but something that
can help if you look at the required
specs if the minimum requirement of a
game is a fork or CPU even if it's a
super old CPU there's a good chance it's
a CPU hungry game but it's not gonna
work like this every time to maximize
performance and notice two things first
connect an external monitor up to your
video card don't use the internal
display if you can avoid it secondly
leave all the USB and Ethernet ports on
the core empty so when I tried recording
gameplay footage to a drive that was
connected to the core it would
occasionally hiccup I also tried video
editing in premiere with multiple drives
attached to the core it works but the
performance gains aren't really worth
the cost in my opinion I want to talk a
little bit about the thermals and noise
so when they're running of the core both
laptops are run quieter particularly the
14 inch blade the 970m isn't being used
anymore so the whole system just runs
cooler and the fans don't have to spin
as fast the core itself has a bit of fan
noise it's very quiet and tolerable
especially at idle when it's under load
the fan noise really depends on the card
that you have inside the core the 1080
was quieter than the 980ti but in
general unless you have a really loud
video card the noise isn't too bad I
actually spent quite a lot of time
trying to connect the Razer core to
other laptops with Thunderbolt 3 ports
now at launch the core only officially
supports the two Razer laptops as well
as the Intel Skull Canyon nook but I was
able to get some of these connected so
the XPS 13 and 15 they can connect I was
able to play some games but it would
lose connection and hang really
frequently the new HP Spectre couldn't
connect at all the Alienware 15 actually
had the best connection maybe because
it's really capable of some external
graphic stuff but it would freeze and
then lose connection pretty often the
macbook obviously won't work
that's not Thunderbolt 3 the Acer
predator
also had a connection but it was super
flaky so basically none of them work
properly right now but my gut feeling is
that at least some of them will work
sometime soon it's just a matter of
drivers and BIOS is being updated I
think companies will get on that
relatively soon and once they do I'll
probably be doing an update to this
series hopefully when the new AMD cards
are it a couple other things if you want
to close the lid of the laptop you can
just turn off the sleep setting and it
works
there weren't any thermal issues that I
noticed when I had either of them
running with the lid closed if you
unplug it in the middle of a game
it'll blue screen but if you unplug it
when it's idling it'll automatically
switch over to the internal video card
both laptops pass the steamvr test even
with the 980ti but the software needs to
mature I'm gonna save that for a future
video
the last thing don't feel pressured into
getting a razor set up just to have an
external GPU there are other Thunderbolt
3 external GPUs coming out shortly and
the Alienware graphics and is always an
option that actually has slightly better
performance right now and you can always
build yourself an ITX system if you want
but I have to say the razor core is
awesome it's priced a little high and I
wish the software was a little bit more
mature which it will be over time but
razors seriously delivered on a really
big promise that they made with the core
and at this point it actually does what
they said it would do now whether or not
it's worth a 4 or $500 here's the thing
razor was the first company to drop the
external Thunderbolt 3 graphics unit so
they can charge whatever they want I
think it's priced a little bit higher
than it should be or it could be but if
this is something that you've always
wanted I think it's worth it at least at
the $400 price point that's the end of
this video hope you guys liked it thumbs
if you liked it
subs if you loved it it's been nice see
you guys next time
[Music]